codepen url: https://codepen.io/tracyb85/pen/KKaQYBR?editors=1000

﻿Questions:


1. What is Semantic HTML? 

2. What is HTML used for? 

3. What is an attribute and where do we put it? 

4. What is the h1 tag used for? How many times should I use it on a page?

5. Name two tags that have required attributes

6. What do we put in the head of our HTML document? 

7. What is an id? 

8. What elements can I add an id to? 

9. How many times can I use the same id on a page? 

10. What is a class? 

11. What elements can I add a class to? 

12. How many times can I use the same class on a page? 

13. How do I get my link to open in a new tab?

14. What is the alt attribute in the image tag used for? 

15. How do I reference an id?

16. What is the difference between a section and a div

17. What is CSS used for? 

18. How do we select an element? Example - every h2 on the page

19. What is the difference between a class and an id? - Give me an example of when I might use each one

20. How do we select classes in CSS?

21. How do we select a p element with a single class of “human””?

22. What is a parent child selector? When would this be useful? 

23. How do you select all links within a div with the class of sidebar?

24. What is a pseudo selector?

25. What do we use to change the spacing between lines?

26. What do we use to change the spacing between letters?

27. What do we use to to change everything to CAPITALS? lowercase? Capitalize?

28. How do I add a 1px border around my div that is dotted and black?

29. How do I select everything on the page? 

30. How do I write a comment in CSS?

31. How do I find out what file I am in, when I am using the command line? 

32. Using the command line - how do I see a list of files/folders in my current folder?

33. How do I remove a file via the command line? Why do I have to be careful with this? 

34. Why should I use version control? 

35. How often should I commit to github?

36. What is the command we would use to push our repo up to github? 

37. Walk me through Lambda's git flow.



Answers:


1. to reinforce the meaning of content on a web page, rather than merely define its appearance

2. the code used to structure a web page and its content 

3. HTML attributes are a modifier of an HTML element type. An attribute either modifies the default functionality of an element type or provides functionality to certain element types unable to function correctly without them. In HTML syntax, an attribute is added to an HTML start tag 

4. the title of the webpage, no

5. a, link, img

6. metadata

7. The id attribute specifies a unique id for an HTML element (the value must be unique within the HTML document). The id attribute is most used to point to a style in a style sheet, and by JavaScript (via the HTML DOM) to manipulate the element with the specific id.

8. any html element

9. 1

10.The class is an attribute which specifies one or more class names for an HTML element. The class attribute can be used on any HTML element.

11. any html element

12. unlimited

13. by adding the target=”_blank” attribute. You should insert this after the link address

14. it specifies an alternate text for an image

15. The syntax for id is: write a hash character (#), followed by an id name

16. <section> means that the content inside is grouped and should appear as a entry in an outline of a page whereas <div> does not convey any meaning, aside from any found in its class, lang and title attributes.

17. it for describing the presentation of Web pages, including colors, layout, and fonts.

18. by using a class

19. Difference between id and class attribute: The only difference between them is that “id” is unique in a page and can only apply to at most one element, while “class” selector can apply to multiple elements.

20. write a period (.) character, followed by the name of the class. You can also specify that only specific HTML elements should be affected by a class. To do this, start with the element name, then write the period (.)

21. write a period (.) character, followed by the name of the class.

22. the selector that selects all elements that are a direct child of the specified element, has two selectors separated by a > symbol. The first selector indicates the parent element. The second selector indicates the child element CSS will style

23. by using descendant selectors

24. a selector that selects elements that are in a specific state, e.g. they are the first element of their type, or they are being hovered over by the mouse pointer

25. line-height CSS property

26. CSS letter-spacing property

27. CSS text-transform Property

28. Style border Property or box-shadow property in CSS

29. universal selector

30. can be added by using the /* tag, which is then closed off by using */ .

31. "cd" command

32. "dir" command 

33. "rm" command, you could wipe a lot of data if not you entire cpu if not careful

34. You should use version control software for all code, files, and assets that multiple team members will collaborate on because keep track of changes and keeps every team member working off the latest version

35. Whenever you add a new feature that's worth commiting

36. "git push"

37. Forking is producing a personal copy of someone else's project, Forks act as a sort of bridge between the original repository and your personal copy, 
    clone-downloads an existing Git repository to your local computer. You will then have a full-blown, local version of that Git repo and can start working on the project, 
    branch- create, list, rename, and delete branches, 
    add-adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit, 
    commit-Record changes to the repository ... by listing files as arguments to the commit command, 
    push-upload local repository content to a remote repository, pushing is how you transfer commits from your local repository to a remote repo, 
    pull-used to fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content, 
    merge-takes independent lines of development created by git branch and integratse them into a single branch. ... The current branch will be updated to reflect the merge, but the target branch will be completely unaffected 
 
Stretch Questions
 
1. What is the difference between an inline element and a block element?

2. What happens when an element is positioned absolutely? 

3. How do I make an element take up only the amount of space it needs but also have the ability to give it a width? 

4. Name 3 elements that are diplay block by default, 2 elements that are display inline by default and 1 element that is display inline-block by default

5. In your own words, explain the box model. What is the "fix" for the box model, in other words, how do we make all elements respect the width we've given them?

Stretch Answers:

1. inline elements do not force a new line to begin in the document flow. Block elements, on the other hand, typically cause a line break to occur

2. it no longer exists in the normal document layout flow, instead it sits on its own layer separate from everything else

3. adjusting its padding and margins

4. <address> <div> <li>, <span> <button>, <nav>

5. places all html in boxes called content, from there you can add padding, borders, and adjust the margins/ flex








